I've got a question from the audience
it's questions come with my personal
life I guess as well as my professional
life scholarly life for education what
have you many many times and it's a
question I look at a little bit
differently today because I bumped into
an old friend at the airport flying back
from France to China just a couple of
days ago so Adrienne asks do you have
any advice on how to start studying
philosophy he says I always wanted to
get into it but it's a very intimidating
subject ok so I think the first
fulfillment of a part of my reply has to
be a question the format of the question
it's about how to study philosophy but I
need to know why you want to study
philosophy on a case-by-case basis
giving advice for this because the
answer for different people is going to
be very very different I bumped into an
old friend someone I used to know very
personally and you know very well but
haven't seen in years at Bangkok Airport
and he called out my name he called out
eyes'll and he could pronounce my name
correctly and normally when people call
out my name correctly in public it's
someone who knows me from YouTube
because they've heard my name for now so
I turned around thinking ok this is
gonna be a vegan or some fad but no it
was somebody who knew me from real life
and he has nothing to do with veganism
and nothing to do with you know my
YouTube persona or what have you said oh
wow so it was this old friend of mine
who I knew well and you know we tried to
get caught up talking for about half an
hour there in the airport and one of the
big changes in his life he explained to
me is that fairly recently he had
started reading philosophy by which he
meant the big names in Western
philosophy he had started reading
Nietzsche and Heidegger I don't know
names that carry some clout in terms of
western academia but if you were to ask
the question why why did he start
reading philosophy his answer was as he
told me proudly that he believed
studying philosophy made his life better
that it improved his own enjoyment of
life
now that's dubious that's dubious
especially when you're talking about
garbage like Friedrich Nietzsche Martin
Heidegger in my biased opinion but we
also if you care about philosophy it
means you have strong opinions about
which philosophers you think are good
and what you think are bad or what you
think are useful which are not useful
which are worth reading which are not
worth reading it's like any other genre
of publications that way you're not
going to have some kind of neutral
attitude that somehow all books are
worth reading just because they're
categorized in the philosophy session
that is ridiculous okay but it did seem
to me peculiar that the two philosophers
he said he was most interested in and he
was most turned on by at least lately as
he started this new phase of his life in
his old age
he's quite he's an older guy and he's
not at a university program or anything
he's just he has one friend with a PhD
whose tutoring him to some extent as
he's getting into reading pretty formal
academic philosophy in his old age how
differently how much differently might
he perceive the situation if he wasn't
reading philosophy for this supposed
benefit of making his own life better
but he was thinking about making our
lives better if he was thinking about it
in a social or political scale within a
social political frame of reference
Nietzsche and Heidegger have in common
that they're fascists hiegel also I
would quite willingly categorize as
fascist Plato also I would categorize as
fascist a great many of the presumed to
be great philosophers were and are
fascist
it matters their politics matter and a
large part of philosophy is ineluctably
political so when we're looking at
things in that perspective already then
we see things very differently now that
doesn't mean that you shouldn't
Plato but it means that you should read
Plato with an awareness of how very
different his view of the world is from
his contemporaries with in Athens
Athenian Athenians who were Pro slave
one to end slavery or who were
pro-democracy were interested in the
advantages and disadvantages of the
constitution of Athens in contrast to
the constitution of Sparta and other
rival states in that part of the world
of time or later in retrospect in
contrast to the type of government they
had in in Rome and what have you if
we're starting on a politically savvy
footing then the way we view these
things is fundamentally very different
why is Immanuel Kant shoved down the
throats of so many young students who
say their interests in philosophy
this is Kant spelled ka NT right if you
don't have a philosopher why is it that
so many of these philosophers whether
it's Hegel or can't they're basically
meaningless if you're not either
Christian or an X Christian struggling
with some of the fundamental ideas
within atheism
what is the salience of Immanuel Kant's
critique of Pure Reason to the lives of
university students today other than the
fact that they're forced to read it
these are not easy questions to answer
and in general when I talk to people who
have been forced to read contour maybe
we've been forced to reach short excerpt
sermon there they're totally unaware of
what really the thesis of that book was
of why it was written of what the
author's purpose was of them you know
the significance of the scientific
breakthroughs and the reinterpretation
of the Bible from Isaac Newton Isaac
Newton is really the context for
Immanuel Kant he's a reaction against
that so there are religious and
political questions framing the
significance of the books that are now
on the Shelf called philosophy and their
presence on that shelf is in many cases
genuinely contestable
why is this book in the philosophy
department and not in the religion
department why is in the philosophy
department and not in the politics
department and in some cases why is it
not just in the personal autobiography
department you know jean-jacques
rousseau jean-jacques rousseau was a
genuinely popular author in his own time
and somehow he squeaks in to the
philosophy shelf but he there's no need
to regard him as philosophy I would say
the same of Friedrich Nietzsche a lot of
what Nietzsche writes sounds like a kind
of of his era like a morning radio
talk-show host or a newspaper columnist
just trying to say the most outrageous
things to get attention it doesn't stand
up as as formal academic philosophy
doesn't stand up as in the terms of
meeting the definitions of problem
solving in philosophy of what makes
philosophy important as a genre unto
itself that's separate from that's
distinct from other kinds of literature
other types of other types of writing on
the types of publications so the
question is how does this person get
into philosophy how do they develop some
confidence philosophy given what is
intimidating about philosophy and I
think the truth is this we're talking
about Western philosophy precisely
what's intimidating about it is that
people do not want to let you ask those
questions the professors do not want to
allow students to ask why is this book
required reading why is this book on
this shelf instead of some other shelf
why is this book taken seriously as
philosophy as opposed to like in
Immanuel Kant's case in many other cases
as opposed to just being a series of
excuses offered for the Christian faith
apologetics within a Christian Studies
course why why are we treating the texts
in this way and in many cases why are we
abstracting from the text a few special
sentences and reinterpreting them and
making them
two kind of formulas and blowing them
out of all proportion in terms of their
importance and influence on on the rest
of philosophy what have you I regard
modern European philosophy as a as a
tremendously weak traditional I'll tell
you why well it's in a bit of a human
context every new girlfriend I've had
even the kind of short term girlfriends
the girlfriends that didn't turn out to
be long-term relationships pretty much
every single girlfriend have had has
asked me at some point about philosophy
and normally it's been in the phone way
normally new girlfriend's have asked me
how do i define philosophy and then why
did philosophy become an important part
of my life why did I spend so much time
reading philosophy and even now to give
you another example earlier today I was
saying to my current girlfriend that I
actually want to make some time to read
to read again and to read more of the
philosophy of Seneca this is Seneca the
younger from ancient Rome Seneca is a
very philosophical author but again
should he even be categorized as
philosophy what about Thucydides ancient
Greek author through Siddha tease Seneca
you can include them in the category of
philosophy or in both cases you could
exclude them from philosophy so what you
say the same even authors who happen to
like this same critique in the same
question sailing anyway with these
various girlfriends would have you
they've tended to raise this question
one point or another and I say to them
we'll look there are really two
definitions of philosophy you need to
know and one definition is down at the
publishing house down at the publishing
company that chooses to publish a book
either they publish it in the category
of philosophy or in the category of
literature or cultural criticism or
politics it's a 100 percent commercial
decision made by the publishing industry
for how to print and promote a book so
any book that the publishing industry
thinks will make more money in the
category of philosophy is printed and
promoted as philosophy and if they
thought it would make more money there
are other categories like cultural
or it could be history or politics they
will publish it under that category so
there's one sense in which it is a
purist
of free market decisions and there is no
more and no less to it than that and
then there's another sense in which you
know we have this idea coming out of
Aristotle of metaphysics and the word
metaphysics itself just has to do with
the order of the books that ever sort of
published it's an almost meaningless
word metaphysics could have been called
pro physics instead and we have works by
Aristotle like posterior analytics and
metaphysics and we have this sense
definitely from Aristotle that when we
talk about philosophy what we're talking
about is fundamentally different from
any other genre of literature any other
category that the publishers handle
because we are dealing with problem
solving methods that ultimately this is
what makes Aristotle's discussion in
metaphysics or posterior analytics
different from other categories and then
at a certain point we have enough
discussion of problem solving methods
that we turn around and look back on
them and we get into comparing and
contrast to get into the comparative
analysis of the problem-solving methods
themselves so thus for example a
philosophical approach to ethics is not
merely interested in questions of right
and wrong or questions of what to do you
know what am I gonna do about this
problem it's an ethical problem we can
talk about that in a non philosophical
way that simply comes to an answer
here's what we got to do but when we
talk about it philosophically in this
sense then we're also genuinely
interested in the problem-solving
methods what methods did we use what
series of steps what kind of reasoning
to be used to arrive at that conclusion
for example about ethics about good and
evil so we're gonna do or not do
something we're gonna do or refuse to do
and maybe it's even worthwhile for us to
answer the same question multiple times
to come to the scene
inclusion through different
problem-solving methods and then to look
back and compare those methods in this I
fundamentally agree with the approach of
Karl Popper and many people criticize
what I say about Karl Popper but hey
it's great anyone pays attention to what
I say about Karl Popper he's not a
particularly popular philosopher but I
have a couple videos talking about
philosophy of Kulpa so yeah there is
this sense of taking methodology
seriously and problem solving methods
transforming how we think and I weighed
gauges problems thus philosophy being
different from any other category okay
so let's come back to the question being
asked here how to approach philosophy
you've got to be honest about yourself
but you've got to be honest with
yourself about why you want to study
philosophy is it just that this category
is praised that it's regarded culturally
as something lofty and fine that you
aspire to be equal to you just want to
feel good enough and smart enough to say
that you've read Immanuel Kant and Hegel
no matter how meaningless the philosophy
of content Hegel may be your life is
that what's going on I'm not saying it
is the person answering I don't know the
person asked this question is it just
that you want a certain kind of social
status that comes from being able to say
that you have read Plato and Aristotle
and Thucydides and Herodotus we can add
some more names from ancient Greece and
Rome if you like Seneca and all the rest
is that is that what it's about is there
a problem you're trying to solve do you
have a political interest a social
interest a personal interest and ethical
interest when I first discovered
Buddhist philosophy one of the things I
said to a very skeptical colleague of
mine was look you know in terms of
philosophy discovering Buddhist
philosophy is like suddenly opening up a
kitchen drawer
you'd forgotten about and finding this
amazing jumble of forks and knives and
screws
and hammers all kinds of different tools
this is kind of drawer of all these
marvelous problem-solving tools that you
forgot you had access to you know and I
remember that further that was a
striking and useful image Buddhism not
as a single problem-solving method but
as containing all these you know
wonderful vital problem-solving methods
and philosophy and if you've been
working on just European philosophy then
a lot of those tools you'd maybe
forgotten about you hadn't seen him
around in a long time or maybe you'd
never you never seen it all so yeah I
think that is enough of an answer here
even though I'm maybe just giving you a
warning you can do it there's nothing
inherently intimidating about reading
the ancient Greeks and once you've built
up your confidence reading the ancient
Greeks in English translation I think
you know you should be willing to
question for yourself why are these
books in this section presumed to be
important meaningful or presumed to be
philosophy at all and you have to have
the self-confidence to come to your own
answers and then ultimately you have to
have the self-confidence to both seek
out new sources and to prune your own
reading list where you decide after a
certain point hey you know what it
doesn't matter that Immanuel Kant is on
the required reading list I'm not
interested in these questions of
Christian apologetics I'm not interested
in a deeply Christian response to Sir
Isaac Newton that's just not meaningful
to my life
or maybe I'm not interested in an author
who's openly fascist making excuses for
the government of Prussia and for why
Prussian fascism was superior to British
democracy it's a huge part of the
philosophy of Hegel most people don't to
be honest most people do not want to be
honest with University students about
that the political owned was these
things be honest about why it is you're
reading these books and when you decide
not to read these books have the honesty
and self-discipline you know to keep
track of that to